==========================================
The long grass swayed in the breeze. A young man stood along the grass' edge. Cadet Falco stared beyond the edge of the island into the wispy purple clouds as the sky's orange hue heralded the coming dawn. He enjoyed these moments just before sunrise as his duties would keep him busy the entirety of the day. Another cadet was making his way along a narrow path through the grass. As dawn broke he reached Falco.

"Sir, signal just received flash communication from dragon command. Air Marshal Zarek has ordered us to join the 22nd Air Wing Immediately."

Falco sighed to himself slowly.

"It really is as bad as the rumors say I suppose. clearing us so early for operations."

The man ignored the opportunity for idle talk. "Orders Sir?"

"Oh, very well. I want to be gone from here in two hours. Get them ready. The flight to Bleshbury is long. If we make good speed we can pretend tomorrow we got a full nights rest tonight.

"Very well."

The man looked at Falco and momentarily decided if he should bother saluting Falco but since he had not bothered to look at him he simply shrugged and turned to make his way back whence he came.

"Mack"

"Yes sir?"

"I need to write a letter to my family before we leave."

"I'll have something ready on the tarmac."

Falco continued to stare. Committing the moment to memory. After today he might me too indisposed to see another. The war that had erupted 3 years earlier had poured death on his people and he held no illusions. Dragon Riding was dangerous business and business was booming.

---------------------------------------------

Mack was a man in his 30's with average features. His life has, thus far, been devoted in service to House Parsix. His tenure as Falco's Manservant had been excellent. Though mack couldn't claim all the credit. After all, its wasn't hard to keep your charge on track when he already burned with desire to serve his people. As he made his way back to the academy his wondered privately if they were even going to survive this war. News from the front had told a tale of devastation wrought upon the land by the Kellan Forces, and now with the cadets unceremoniously being shipped out with no forewarning he worried that things were reaching a precipice. 

After entering the outer barrier Mack made his way to the Air Crew Office. The crew chief sat behind a desk reading a report on the clipboard and casually looked over his glasses to asses his interruption. He waits expectantly for Mack to begin. 

"Cadet Wing Blue has been ordered to Bleshbury. Falco intends to leave within two hours."

The Chief eyes gravitated back to his report and grabbed a long sip of his coffee before giving his reply. "Yes sir"

Mack walked out of the office and returned to the cadet barracks just as the first bell had run to start the day. Mack bellowed loudly "BLUE WING SQUADRON COMMANDERS ON ME. JACKSON, DECKER, MASON, FREDERICHS!!" The hive of people quickly came to life as Mack kept shouting until the specific people showed up in front of him. 

" We leave for Bleshbury in 2 hrs gentleman. Get your shit together and get everyone on the tarmac in an hour and a half. Questions?"

---------------------------------------------

Falco exited his command hut 15 minutes before takeoff. Walking across a narrow road he crossed a line of trees onto the tarmac. 50 dragons,freshly chromed, saddled, and with air crew awaited him in two rows straddling the takeoff path. Pilots were making last minute checks on gear and beast. His dragon was at the head of the line allowing him to inspect as he went. Of course nothing caught his eye as Mack and his squadron leaders were well accustomed to such sudden operations. 

Shortly and without fanfare Falco and his entire wing were in the air headed north to the islet of Dak some four hours flight distant. Falco finally had time to think having just given disturbing news direct from Dragon Command. Within 2 days the enemy fleet will have made it to the academy. And even now leaving with extreme haste the way may not be clear north and chances of running into the fleets forward pickets were moderate. 

As the clouds drifted by so did the hours. Finally, around noon, a small dark landmass was sighted floating low in the sky just a few thousand feet above the cloud layer. The Islet of Dak. They slowly descended in a gliding spiral fashion down to the islet. The island though small as far as civilization was concerned still had ample room and clear space for the wing to land. A quick rest while not strictly necessary, after all, the dragons could certainly fly farther, was still taken as the next and final leg to Bleshbury would have them flying over nought but the cloud layer for some ten hours and near fifteen hundred miles. They could go faster but no need to test the beasts patience on such a routine flight. Dragons were the fastest things in the skys. Unnaturally fast. 

Late in the afternoon a dense cloud bank appeared on the horizon. Falco flipped the round altimeter chained to his jacket up so he could read it. Next checking his oxygen reserve he donned his mask and gave orders for the rest of his wing to do the same. Today they would fly above the layer he didn't want to be caught unaware coming out of cloud cover. 

Day turned to dark night and the stars in all their glory came out to meet the cadets but as they came closer to their objective a red sky met their gaze at the horizon. They of course in the last few years knew what this meant all too well. War.

-----------------------------------------------

The planet spun wildly around Falco. As the air wing had approached Bleshbury it became increasingly apparent that the surrounding countryside had been devastated just a few scant hours ago. Falco urged his mount forward quickening his pace considerably. He looked at his airspeed indicator and seeing it read 250mph. It was then he noticed the steam powered zeppelin ten thousand feet below spraying fire from nozzles down upon a small farming community.

Grabbing the steering horns Falco directed the dragon. The dragon for its part pulled its wings in and both rider and mount lurched forward and rolled to the right as the dragon began to drop through the air like a stone. The dragon spun lazily as the altimeter in his jack began to spin alarmingly fast in a counter clockwise direction. Just as the dragon continued to plummet past the height of the zeppelin it suddenly snapped its wings back out and converts an incredible amount of momentum into forward speed rocketing up and forward as Falco is pressed into his saddle with force. Falco briefly wondered if his cheeks were going to rip off his face.

The dragon rolled upside down as it blew past the underside of the zeppelin bellowing a great blast of fire the entire length of the undercarriage. The zeppelin began to spit gouts of flame and explode almost as fast as Falco delivered the fiery blast. The great explosion illuminated the countryside in all directions as the heated wreck fell to ground.
