Codex
Codices
Grimoires
Spell Book
Treatise
Tablet
Corpus
Leechbooks



Folklore
History


Elements
Numerology
Herbology
Animolgy
Medecine
Botany
Minerology
Necromancy
Divination

Alchemy
Demonology
Astrology
Astralmagic
Spirit Realm

Healing Magic

Ashrak
Solomon Seals-Sigils-Keys
Hermes Trismegistus
Zoroaster

How to create talismans
how to create spells, charms and divination

how to summon or invoke
The only contents found in a grimoire would be information on spells, rituals, the preparation of magical tools, and lists of ingredients and their magical correspondences


The Magus
	handbook of the occult and ceremonial magic compiled by occultist Francis Barrett published in 1801.
	
	We have collected out of the works of the most famous magicians, such as Zoroaster, Hermes, Apollonius, Simon of the Temple, Trithemius, Agrippa, Porta (the Neapolitan), Dee, Paracelsus, Roger Bacon, and a great many others...

Three Books of Occult Philosophy (De Occulta Philosophia libri III) 
	is Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa's study of occult philosophy, acknowledged as a significant contribution to the Renaissance philosophical discussion concerning the powers of magic, and its relationship with religion.
	
	The three books deal with elemental, celestial and intellectual magic. The books outline the four elements, astrology, Kabbalah, numerology, angels, names of God, the virtues and relationships with each other as well as methods of utilizing these relationships and laws in medicine, scrying, alchemy, ceremonial magic, origins of what are from the Hebrew, Greek and Chaldean context. 
	
Hermetica
	 The "Hermetic tradition" consequently refers to alchemy, magic, astrology, and related subjects. The texts are usually divided into two categories: the philosophical and the technical hermetica. The former deals mainly with philosophy, and the latter with practical magic, potions, and alchemy. The expression "hermetically sealed" comes from the alchemical procedure to make the Philosopher's Stone. This required a mixture of materials to be placed in a glass vessel which was sealed by fusing the neck closed, a procedure known as the Seal of
	 Hermes. The vessel was then heated for 30 to 40 days.[23]
	 
Magia Naturalis (in English, Natural Magic) 
	is a work of popular science by Giambattista della Porta first published in Naples in 1558.

	Natural Magic was revised and considerably expanded throughout the author's lifetime; its twenty books (Naples 1589) include observations upon geology, optics, medicines, poisons, cooking, metallurgy, magnetism, cosmetics, perfumes, gunpowder, and invisible writing. 
	
Picatrix  (The goal of the wise)
	 a 400-page book of magic and astrology originally written in Arabic under the title Ghāyat al-Ḥakīm (Arabic: غاية الحكيم), which most scholars assume was originally written in the middle of the 11th century
	 
	 Picatrix is a composite work that synthesizes older works on magic and astrology. One of the most influential interpretations suggests it is to be regarded as a "handbook of talismanic magic".[4] Another researcher summarizes it as "the most thorough exposition of celestial magic in Arabic", indicating the sources for the work as "Arabic texts on Hermeticism, Sabianism, Ismailism, astrology, alchemy and magic produced in the Near East in the ninth and tenth centuries A.D."
	 
	 
	

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
